=head1 Upgrade Instructions

ilbot went through some major changes. If your installation of ilbot is older
than 2013-07-13, you need to follow the instructions below.

=head2 Background

The old versions of ilbot used a single database table called C<irclog> for
everything. This doesn't scale well, so newer versions use a better normalized
database schema.

In addition, search is now handled by the I<Lucy> search engine. See
L<http://lucy.apache.org/> for more information on Lucy.

=head2 Instructions

The following commands all assume that the
database (for both the new and the old tables) is called C<ilbot>, and that
the current system user has sufficient database priviliges to execute all
commands. If that's not the case, modify the commands accordingly.

If you have much log data, and want to minimize downtime, please see the notes
at the end of this file.

=over

=item *

Change into the ilbot source directory:

    cd ilbot

=item *

Create the new database tables:

    mysql ilbot < sql/schema.mysql

=item *

Stop the logging bot

=item *

Migrate the data:

    mysql ilbot < sql/migration.mysql
    mysql ilbot < sql/update-cache.mysql

(This step might take a few minutes)

=item *

If the ilbot database user doesn't have full priviliges on the database
(recommended), you need to add the privileges to execute a stored procedure

    echo "GRANT EXECUTE ON PROCEDURE ilbot.ilbot_log_line TO 'ilbot'@'localhost'" | mysql

=item *

Install the new version of ilbot

    ./install


=item *

Change into the installation directory

    cd $install_path

=item *

Create the search indexes

    bin/create-search-index -verbose

=item *

Check that the web frontend works correctly.

=item *

Start the logging bot again.

=item *

Set up daily cronjobs that run these commands:

    mysql ilbot < sql/update-cache.mysql
    bin/create-search-index

=item *

Make a backup of the old database table, and then drop it:

    mysqldump ilbot irclog | gzip > ilbot-irclog-$(date --rfc-3339=date).sql.gz
    echo 'DROP TABLE irclog' | mysql ilbot

=back

=head2 Notes

The C<sql/migration.sql> file is safe against multiple executions, and on
subsequent execution only migrates the database rows that haven't been
migrated (for example because new rows were logged since the last execution).

This means you an do something like this to minimize the downtime during
upgrade:

    1) run the migration while the bot still runs
    2) install the new version of ilbot, and make everything reading for
       running the bot with the new database schema
    3) kill the old bot
    4) run the migration again
    5) start the new bot

=cut
